=head1 NAME

Whatpm::SWML::Parser - SWML Parser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Whatpm::SWML::Parser;
  my $parser = Whatpm::SWML::Parser->new;
  $parser->parse_char_string ($string => $doc, $onerror);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Whatpm::SWML::Parser> module is an SWML parser.  SWML is a
markup language used in SuikaWiki.  The parser converts a text
representing an SWML document into a DOM tree.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item my $parser = Whatpm::SWML::Parser->new

Creates an instance of the SWML parser.

=item $parser->parse_char_string ($string, $doc, $onerror)

Parses a character string and constructs a DOM tree.

The first argument, I<$string>, is a I<character> string to be parsed.

The second argument, I<$doc> is a DOM C<Document> object (an instance
of L<Message::DOM::Document> class) to which the parsed result is
constructed.  Any existing child node is removed before parsing.

The third argument, I<$onerror>, is a code reference which is invoked
whenever a parse error is detected or a warning is emitted during the
parsing process.  The code reference would receive a set of arguments
which describe the kind and situation of the error or warnings.  It
shares the same reporting format as the I<$onerror> code reference
used in C<Whatpm::HTML> and other modules.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

SuikaWiki Markup Language (SWML)
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/www/markup/suikawiki/spec/swml-work>.

L<Message::DOM::DOMImplementation>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2008-2011 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
