=head1 NAME

Whatpm::ContentChecker - DOM Conformance Checker

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Whatpm::ContentChecker;
  
  Whatpm::ContentChecker->check_document ($doc, sub {
    my %arg = @_;
    warn get_node_path ($arg{node}), ": ",
        ($arg{level} || "Error"), ": ",
        $arg{type}, "\n";
  });
  
  Whatpm::ContentChecker->check_element ($doc, sub {
    my %arg = @_;
    warn get_node_path ($arg{node}), ": ",
        ($arg{level} || "Error"), ": ",
        $arg{type}, "\n";
  });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Perl module C<Whatpm::ContentChecker> contains methods for
validation of entire or part of DOM tree with regard to relevant Web
standards such as HTML.

=head1 METHODS

This module contains two class methods:

=over 4

=item Whatpm::ContentChecker->check_document (I<$document>, I<$onerror>)

Checks a document, I<$document>, and its descendant for their
conformance.  If there is an error or a warnign, then the
I<$onerror> C<CODE> is invoked with named arguments same
as ones for the method C<check_element>.

=item Whatpm::ContentChecker->check_element (I<$element>, I<$onerror>)

Checks an element, I<$element>, and its descendant for their conformance.
If there is an error or a warning, then the I<$onerror> C<CODE>
is invoked with named arguments:

=over 4

=item level (Might be C<undef>)

A string which describes the severity of the error or warning.
For the list of the severities, see
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/gate/2005/sw/Whatpm%20Error%20Types>.

=item node (Always specified)

The node with which the error is detected.

=item type (Always specified)

A string which describes the type of the error or warning.
For the list of the errors and warnings, see
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/gate/2005/sw/Whatpm%20Error%20Types>.

=item text (Sometimes specified)

An optional string argumenting the type of the error, e.g. an element
name.

=item value (Sometimes specified)

An optional string in which the error occurs.  For example, a URL
extracted from a complex attribute value, in whcih a conformance error
is detected.

=back

=back

=head1 SUPPORTED STANDARDS

L<Whatpm::ContentChecker> - XML 1.0, XML 1.1, XML Namespaces 1.0, XML
Namespaces 1.1, C<xml:base>, C<xml:id>.

L<Whatpm::ContentChecker::HTML> - Web Applications 1.0 (including HTML
Living Standard and HTML5), manakai's Conformance Checking Guideline
for Obsolete HTML Elements and Attributes.

L<Whatpm::ContentChecker::Atom> - Atom 1.0, Atom Threading Extension.

For more information, see
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/gate/2007/html/standards>.

=head1 BUGS

This conformance checker is work in progress; it I<might> not be
able to detect all the errors in the DOM tree, and it I<might> 
detect an error for a node that is conforming in fact.

=head1 NOTES ON IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS

I<This section is not complete.>

This section describes various internal constructions used in
L<Whatpm::ContentChecker> and relevant modules.  These data structures
are not public interfaces -- they should not be accessed or modified
by applications.  They are documented here for the convenience of
development only.

=head2 The C<< $self->{flag} >> Structure

=over 4

=item C<< $self->{flag}->{has_label} >>

This flag is set to a true value if and only if there is a C<label>
element ancestor of the current node.

=item C<< $self->{flag}->{has_labelable} >>

This flag is set to C<1> if and only if a nearest ancestor C<label>
element has the C<for> attribute and there is no labelable
form-associated element that is a descendant of the C<label> element
and precedes the current node in tree order.  This flag is set to C<2>
if and only if there is a labelable form-associated element that is a
descendant of the nearest ancestor C<label> element of the current
node and precedes the current node in tree order.  This flag is
otherwise set to a false value.  B<However>, when there is no ancestor
C<label> element of the current node, i.e. when 
C<< $self->{flag}->{has_label} >> is false, the value of the
C<< $self->{flag}->{has_labelable} >> flag is I<undefined>.

=back

=head2 The C<$element_state> Structure

=over 4

=item C<< $element_state->{has_label_original} >>

Used to preserve the value of C<< $self->{flag}->{has_label} >> at the
time of invocation of the method C<element_start> for the element
being checked.

=item C<< $element_state->{has_labelable_original} >>

Used to preserve the value of C<< $self->{flag}->{has_labelable} >> at
the time of invocation of the method C<element_start> for the element
being checked.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Whatpm::ContentChecker::Atom>

L<Whatpm::ContentChecker::HTML>

<https://suika.suikawiki.org/gate/2005/sw/Whatpm%20Error%20Types>

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2011 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
