=head1 NAME

Whatpm::CSS::SelectorsParser - A Selectors Parser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

@@ TBD

=head1 DESCRIPTION

@@ TBD

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Simple Selector Types

The constants below represent the types of simple selectors (or parts
of simple selectors).

=over 4

=item NAMESPACE_SELECTOR

Namespace specification.  It represents the namespace part
of a universal or type selector.

=item LOCAL_NAME_SELECTOR

Local name specification.  It represents the local name part
of a type selector.

=item ID_SELECTOR

An ID selector.

=item CLASS_SELECTOR

A class selector.

=item PSEUDO_CLASS_SELECTOR

A pseudo-class selector.

=item PSEUDO_ELEMENT_SELECTOR

A pseudo-element specification.

=item ATTRIBUTE_SELECTOR

An attribute selector.

=back

The tag C<:selector> can be used to export all of these
constants as:

  use Whatpm::CSS::SelectorsParser qw(:selector);

=head2 Combinator Types

The constants below represent the types of combinators.

=over 4

=item DESCENDANT_COMBINATOR

A descendant combinator.

=item CHILD_COMBINATOR

A child combinator.

=item ADJACENT_SIBLING_COMBINATOR

An adjacent sibling combinator.

=item GENERAL_SIBLING_COMBINATOR

A general sibling combinator.

=back

The tag C<:combinator> can be used to export all of these
constants as:

  use Whatpm::CSS::SelectorsParser qw(:combinator);

=head2 Match Types

The constants below represent the types of matches used
in attribute selectors.

=over 4

=item EXISTS_MATCH

Match by the existence of an attribute.

=item EQUALS_MATCH

Exact match.

=item INCLUDES_MATCH

Includes match (typically used for class attributes).

=item DASH_MATCH

Dash match (typically used for language tag attributes).

=item PREFIX_MATCH

Prefix match.

=item SUFFIX_MATCH

Suffix match.

=item SUBSTRING_MATCH

Substring match.

=back

The tag C<:match> can be used to export all of these
constants as:

  use Whatpm::CSS::SelectorsParser qw(:match);

=head1 METHODS

@@ TBD

=head1 SEE ALSO

@@ TBD

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2007 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

## $Date: 2007/10/17 09:47:36 $
