=head1 NAME

Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet - A Perl Interface to universalchardet Character Encoding Detection

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  require Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet;
  $charset_name = Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet
      ->detect_byte_string ($byte_string);
  # $charset_name: charset name (in lowercase) or undef

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet> module is a Perl interface to
the universalchardet character encoding detection.

The universalchardet is originally developed by Mozilla project and
then ported to other platforms.  The
C<Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet> module provides a Perl interface
to Universal Encoding Detector, a Python port of the Mozilla's
universalchardet code.  Future version of this module might provide an
interface to another port of the universalchardet.

=head1 METHOD

=over 4

=item I<$charset> = Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet->detect_byte_string (I<$s>)

Detect the character encoding of the specified byte string.

=over 4

=item I<$s>

The byte string.

=item I<$charset>

The name of the character encoding, detected by universalchardet, in
lowercase.  If no character encoding can be detected, because, e.g.,
no implementation for universalchardet is found, C<undef> is returned.

For the list of supported encodings, see documentation for Universal
Encoding Detector
<http://chardet.feedparser.org/docs/supported-encodings.html>.

=back

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCY

=over 4

=item L<Inline::Python>

A Perl module which enables Python support for L<Inline> code
embedding, available from
<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Inline-Python/>.

To install the module using L<CPAN>:

  root# perl -MCPAN -eshell
  cpan> install Inline::Python

=item Python

Available at <http://www.python.org/download/>.

=item Universal Encoding Detector

Available at <http://chardet.feedparser.org/download/>.

Expand the archive and then execute C<python setup.py install> in the
expanded directory.

=back

=head1 TROUBLESHOOTING

The C<Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet> module does not raise error
even when it fails to load the universalchardet library; it simply
C<warn>s the error message.

This behavior can be changed by setting a true value to the flag
C<$Whatpm::Charset::UniversalCharDet::DEBUG> - it will make any error
invoke C<die> instead of C<warn>.

Common error messages are as follows:

=over 4

=item Can't locate Inline.pm in @INC

Module L<Inline> is not installed.

=item Error. You have specified 'Python' as an Inline programming language.

Module L<Inline::Python> is not installed.  If you B<did> install the
module, please find "the Inline DIRECTORY" (e.g. C<./_Inline>) and
remove it.

=item Couldn't find an appropriate DIRECTORY for Inline to use.

The temporary directory for the L<Inline> module is not available.
See L<Inline::Python/"The Inline DIRECTORY"> or
<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Inline/Inline.pod#The_Inline_DIRECTORY>.

=item Error -- py_eval raised an exception

Universal Encoding Detector is not installed.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

UNIVCHARDET - SuikaWiki
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/gate/2005/sw/UNIVCHARDET>.

Universal Encoding Detector: character encoding auto-detection in
Python <http://chardet.feedparser.org/>.

A composite approach to language/encoding detection
<http://www.mozilla.org/projects/intl/UniversalCharsetDetection.html>.

Web Applications 1.0 - Determining the character encoding
<http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/complete.html#determining-the-character-encoding>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2010 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
