=head1 NAME

Whatpm::Atom::Aggregator - Simple Atom Feed Aggregator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Whatpm::Atom::Aggregator;
  
  my $feed_doc = Whatpm::Atom::Aggregator->create_feed_from_feeds
    ({feed_id => q<http://www.example.com/feed.atom>,
      feed_title => q<My aggregated feed>,
      feed_lang => 'en'},
     $source_feed_doc1,
     $source_feed_doc2,
     ...);
  print $feed_doc->inner_html;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Whatpm::Atom::Aggregator> module provides a simple Atom feed
aggregator that generate an Atom feed from zero or more source Atom
feeds.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $feed_doc = Whatpm::Atom::Aggregator->create_feed_from_feeds ({options...}, $feed1, $feed2, ...)

Generates an Atom feed from zero or more source Atom feeds.  The first
argument is a hash reference of various options.  The remaining
arguments are all input Atom feeds.  The input Atom feeds have to be
DOM C<Document> objects.  The method returns the aggregated Atom feed
as a DOM C<Document> object.

Options:

=over 4

=item feed_id (REQUIRED)

The ID of the aggregated feed.  It has to be a valid C<atom:id>
element content.

=item feed_title (REQUIRED)

The title of the aggregated feed.

=item feed_lang

The language of the aggregated feed.  The value has to be a valid
C<xml:lang> attribute value.  Default value is the empty string,
denoting the language is unknown.

=back

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2010 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

