=head1 NAME

Whatpm::HTML::Tokenizer - An HTML and XML tokenizer

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Whatpm::HTML::Tokenizer> module provides an implementation of
HTML and XML tokenizer.  Unlike its name, this module can be used for
XML documents as well as HTML.  It is not intended to be used directly
from general-purpose applications; instead it is used as part of HTML
or XML parser, such as L<Whatpm::HTML::Parser> and
L<Whatpm::XML::Parser>.

The module is intended to be a conforming HTML tokenizer according to
Web Applications 1.0 specification (though it is meaningless to
discuess the conformance of the tokenizer standalone).  By setting the
XML flag, it can also tokenize XML documents in a way consistent with
the HTML tokenization specification.  You might consider it as an
implementation of the XML5 tokenization algorithm as "patched" by
later HTML5 development.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Whatpm::HTML::Parser>, L<Whatpm::XML::Parser>.

L<Whatpm::HTML::InputStream>.

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over 4

=item [HTML]

HTML Living Standard
<http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/complete.html#tokenization>.

=item [XML]

XML 1.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/xml/>.

XML 1.1 <http://www.w3.org/TR/xml11/>.

XML5.  See <https://suika.suikawiki.org/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/XML5> for
references.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2012 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
