=head1 NAME

Message::DOM::NodeList - DOM |NodeList| interface

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Message::DOM::NodeList> implements the DOM C<NodeList>
interface.

=head1 METHODS

The C<NodeList> object has following methods:

=over 4

=item $length = scalar @$nodelist

=item $length = $nodelist->length

Return the number of the items in the list.  [DOM] [DOMPERL]

=item $item = $nodelist->[$index]

=item $item = $nodelist->item ($index)

Return an item in the list.  [DOM] [DOMPERL]

=item $arrayref = $nodelist->to_a

Return an array reference containing the items in the list.  [DOMPERL]

=item ($item0, $item1, ...) = $nodelist->to_list

Return the items in the list as a Perl list.  [DOMPERL]

=item $boolean = $nodelist->manakai_read_only

Return whether the list is read-only or not.  [MANAKAI]

=item @$nodelist = ()

Remove all items from the list.  This operation is not supported for
read-only lists.  [DOMPERL]

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over 4

=item [DOM]

DOM
<http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/domcore/raw-file/tip/Overview.html#interface-nodelist>.

=item [MANAKAI]

manakai DOM Extensions
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/manakai%20DOM%20Extensions>.

=item [DOMPERL]

manakai's DOM Perl Binding
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/manakai's%20DOM%20Perl%20Binding>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2012 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
