=head1 NAME

Message::DOM::TextTrack - DOM |TextTrack| object

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Message::DOM::TextTrack> class implements the DOM C<TextTrack>
interface.

=head1 METHODS

The C<Message::DOM::TextTrack> object has following methods:

=over 4

=item $string = $track->kind

The kind of the track.  [HTML]

=item $string = $track->label

The label of the track.  [HTML]

=item $string = $track->language

The language tag of the track.  [HTML]

=item $mode = $track->mode

The mode of the track.  [HTML]

=item $bool = $track->manakai_is_invalid

Return true if the text track represents a WebVTT file which cannot be
successfully processed by the WebVTT parser.  [MANAKAI]

=item $list = $track->cues

XXX Not implemented yet.

=item $list = $track->active_cues

XXX Not implemented yet.

=item $list = $track->manakai_all_cues

Return the live list of the cues contained in the track.  [MANAKAI]

=item $track->add_cue ($cue)

Add the cue to the track.  [HTML]

=item $track->remove_cue ($cue)

Remove the cue from the track.  [HTML]

=item $track2 = $track->manakai_clone_track

Create a copy of the text track object.  Attributes whose values are
not cue lists are copied to the clone.  All cues in the
C<manakai_all_cues> list are also cloned to the new track.  [MANAKAI]

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

HTML Standard
<http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/#texttrack>.

manakai DOM Extensions
<http://suika.fam.cx/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/manakai%20DOM%20Extensions#anchor-59>.

WebVTT Standard <http://dev.w3.org/html5/webvtt/>.

L<Message::DOM::TextTrackCue>, L<Message::DOM::TextTrackCueList>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
