=head1 NAME

Message::DOM::WebVTTCue - DOM |WebVTTCue| object

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Message::DOM::WebVTTCue> class implements the DOM C<WebVTTCue>
interface.

=head1 METHODS

The C<Message::DOM::WebVTTCue> object has following methods, in
addition to the methods in the L<Message::DOM::TextTrackCue>:

=over 4

=item $value = $cue->vertical

=item $cue->vertical ($new_value)

Get or set the writing direction of the cue.  [WEBVTT]

=item $bool = $cue->snap_to_lines

=item $cue->snap_to_lines ($new_bool)

Get or set the snap-to-lines flag of the cue.  [WEBVTT]

=item $int = $cue->line

=item $cue->line ($new_int)

Get the computed line position, or set the line position, of the cue.
[WEBVTT]

=item $int = $cue->size

=item $cue->size ($new_int)

Get or set the text position of the cue.  [WEBVTT]

=item $value = $cue->align

=item $cue->align ($new_value)

Get or set the alignment of the cue.  [WEBVTT]

=item $text = $cue->text

=item $cue->text ($new_text)

Get or set the text of the cue, in raw unparsed format.  [WEBVTT]

=item $cue->get_cue_as_html

XXX Not implemented yet.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

[HTML] HTML Standard
<http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/#texttrackcue>.

[WEBVTT] WebVTT Standard <http://dev.w3.org/html5/webvtt/>.

L<Message::DOM::TextTrackCue>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012-2013 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
