=head1 NAME

Whatpm::WebVTT::Serializer - A WebVTT serializer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Whatpm::WebVTT::Serializer;
  
  $string = Whatpm::WebVTT::Serializer
      ->track_to_char_string ($track);
  
  $text = Whatpm::WebVTT::Serializer->dom_to_text
      ($document_fragment)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Whatpm::WebVTT::Serializer> module provides methods to convert
in-memory representation of WebVTT into strings in the WebVTT format.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $string = Whatpm::WebVTT::Serializer->track_to_char_string ($track)

Serialize the specified track object (DOM C<TextTrack>,
L<Message::DOM::TextTrack> into WebVTT format.  The serializer does
its best effort to output a valid WebVTT file, while keeping original
semantics as far as possible.  Please note that some C<TextTrack>
object cannot serialize as is.  For example, the C<TextTrack> object
containing a cue with ID C<< --> >> cannot represent in WebVTT, such
that the serializer replace it by C<--&gt;>.

The output of this method is a character string, i.e. a possibly
utf8-flagged string of characters, not bytes.

=item $text = Whatpm::WebVTT::Serializer->dom_to_text ($node)

Serialize the specified DOM node into WebVTT cue text format.  The
specified node is expected to have structure that could be generated
by the WebVTT's DOM construction rule (or L<Whatpm::WebVTT::Parser>'s
C<text_to_dom> method), otherwise no meaningful result would be
returned.

The output of this method is a character string.  It is expected to be
used to set the new value of the C<< $cue->text >> attribute.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

WebVTT Standard <http://dev.w3.org/html5/webvtt/>.

L<Whatpm::WebVTT::Parser>.

L<Message::DOM::TextTrack>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
