=head1 NAME

Message::CGI::Util - manakai CGI Utilities

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Message::CGI::Util qw(htescape percent_encode);
  
  print htescape "ab < cd";
  print q<http://www.example.com/> . percent_encode "\x{4e00} = 1";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Message::CGI::Util> module provides various functions which are
particulary useful in CGI scripts.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Functions are not exported by default.  You have to explicitly import
functions you'd like to use as:

  use Message::CGI::Util qw(function1 function2 ...);

=over 4

=item STRING = htescape STRING

Escapes the given string for the use in HTML/XML markups.

=item OCTETS = percent_encode CHARS

Percene-encodes the given character string.  Characters are encode in
C<utf8> and then percent-encoded.  Any character other than RFC 3986's
C<unreserved> characters are encoded.

=item OCTETS = percent_encode_na CHARS

Percent-encodes the given character string.  It works as
C<percent_encode> does, except that this function only encodes
non-ASCII characters.  Reserved ASCII characters are I<not> encoded.

=item CHARS = percent_decode OCTETS

Percent-decodes the given byte string and then decoded as UTF-8.

=item ABSURL = get_absolute_url RELURL, BASEURL

Resolves the relative reference against the given base URL and returns
the RFC 3986 absolute URI.

=item STRING = datetime_in_content TIME_T

Formats the given time in the "date or time strings in content" format
defined in earlier drafts of the Web Applications 1.0 specification.

=item STRING = datetime_for_http TIME_T

Formats the given time in the RFC 1123 format defined in the RFC 2616
(HTTP/1.1).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

The L<URL::PercentEncode> module provides more comprehensive set of
functions to percent-encode or percent-decode strings.  The module is
available from <https://suika.suikawiki.org/gate/git/wi/perl/webutils.git>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2008-2010 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
